Jerry Michalski: This is the.
Mike Nelson: I think there were a few women on there, too, which surprised me.
Stacey Druss: Not surprising me.
Jerry Michalski: the group chat. Oh, good. This is the Open Global Mind weekly call for October 16th, 2025.
Jerry Michalski: We were just bantering a little bit.
Jerry Michalski: Dave and I have been in for the week, and Dave, I have to apologize, I haven't been able to make your sessions, because they've overlapped with stuff. We've been part of a Sketch Your Mind virtual workshop all week that a Hungarian friend, Jolt Vichyan.
Jerry Michalski: decided to throw, and it's been great. It's been really, like…
Jerry Michalski: I found it super useful, like, I got to do a brain demo session on Tuesday morning.
Jerry Michalski: Dave, I don't know if you have any thoughts about it, but…
Dave Gray: I thought it was great, and it was well received, I think.
Jerry Michalski: And it's… what's nice is he's attracted a good who's who of people who care about visualization and graphic facilitation and thinking with pictures, and aces like Dave, who've been putting concepts into visuals for years and years and years and years and years, and it's collaborative.
Jerry Michalski: there's a very nice… there's a very nice feel to it. We're, you know, kind of attending one another's sessions and on from there.
Jerry Michalski: I will put a link to the…
Jerry Michalski: the conference in the chat. Sketch Your Mind is the name of it.
Jerry Michalski: And, I'll put a link to it in the chat.
Jerry Michalski: And then…
Jerry Michalski: Off we go. And then, Stacy, I wanted to mention to you that I just recorded… I just recorded a podcast, about masculinity with, Mo Carrick. I'll put a link to her,
Jerry Michalski: her bio, her LinkedIn, in the chat as well.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I met her when I was in Berkeley at the Responsive Conference, and we had a really delightful conversation about…
Jerry Michalski: all aspects about masculinity, so I'm gonna do… I have to do some very, very light editing on it, and then post that.
Stacey Druss: Thank you. Look forward to that.
Jerry Michalski: And maybe, I mean, a good idea might be to… I'll post that, and then we can have that as a topic for an OGM call.
Stacey Druss: I like that.
Jerry Michalski: See how that goes.
Jerry Michalski: Groovy. Nice to see everybody here. I, sent… I was inspired,
Jerry Michalski: For this topic, just by recent news, and… and…
Jerry Michalski: And by kind of an awareness that generally, but not exclusively or entirely, this is a left-leaning group. We sort of have attracted like-minds.
Jerry Michalski: And some of us are more toward the middle, but very few of us are out on the right wing of political opinion these days. And when things happen, we tend to have a similar response. And, I was struck recently that,
Jerry Michalski: through bluster and force and I don't know what else, other kinds of things, Donald Trump seems to have cracked some code.
Jerry Michalski: on the Gaza situation, and achieved a ceasefire and an exchange of hostages, which ends the hostage problem for the moment.
Jerry Michalski: There are no remaining October 7 hostages that we know of, alive or dead. I guess maybe some of the bodies have yet to be recovered and returned, but in general, that thing is resolved. How Gaza plays out, we don't know. If Trump has his way, it'll turn into a resort city with, you know, large Trump towers on it, a thought that chills my blood, but hey, there.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: He seems to have dropped… he seems to have dropped that.
Jerry Michalski: I… maybe.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You must never know anything with him, yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, he's apparently also got plans, on his, in the Oval Office, he's got mock-ups of a new Arc of Triumph kind of thing opposite,
Jerry Michalski: Opposite Arlington National Cemetery across the river, and he's adding stuff like the ballroom and other sorts of things to the White House, gilding it all in gold, etc. He's leaving his mark. He's absolutely leaving his mark. But I'm straying from our topic.
Jerry Michalski: in a way that I don't particularly want to, because I kind of want to… I'll come back to it. Then I heard the news that I didn't realize, but that the recent, the,
Jerry Michalski: the Nobel… the Nobel Peace Prize winner,
Jerry Michalski: Maria Corina Machado, dedicated her Nobel Prize to the people of Venezuela and Donald Trump.
Jerry Michalski: And I sort of googled that, and I saw… well, I googled that, and I saw an article from The Nation that was like, oh my god, what a sellout, this is terrible, blah blah blah, and then I heard some backstory.
Jerry Michalski: And the backstory I heard, which I'll share here, which is Google-able also, if you're looking for it.
Jerry Michalski: was that Trump is the only president who has actually sent, like, Navy offshore, and started to actively do stuff that is helpful to people against Maduro. He's put a $40 million bounty on Maduro's head. Whether that's even legal in the world, I don't know.
Jerry Michalski: likely that it's not, but somehow or other, through… and the reason that Machado dedicates their award to him is he has actually done something and moved the needle. And sometimes you move the needle by scratching the record.
Jerry Michalski: I don't know, I'm stretching the metaphor.
Jerry Michalski: But…
Jerry Michalski: I'm left-leaning, and I was like, how do I process this? How do I handle this? And I'd like us not to talk about
Jerry Michalski: Trump and Machado and this particular incident, but rather.
Jerry Michalski: other instances of hearing stuff that conflicts with our worldview, and figuring out, do we shift our worldview some? What do we do? How do we do that? I'd rather focus there than on the incident, although I will understand if we need to spend some time decompressing.
Mike Nelson: the inside.
Jerry Michalski: right now. So, Gil.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, so the topic for today is shifting one's worldview?
Jerry Michalski: No, the topic is just, dealing with uncomfortable news, which taps into shifting one's worldview, but it's just like, how do we handle news that doesn't fit our worldview, is maybe the generalization of the topic.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Got it. Good topic, and plenty of opportunity for that these days. Just on the immediate one, and maybe this is a good jumping-off point, I don't… I'm not of the mind that someone should get the Nobel Peace Prize for putting warships off somebody's coast.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: kind of doesn't fit my picture of a Nobel Peace Prize. On the other hand, I'm… I'm cautiously impressed with what Trump has done in the Middle East, but I also don't think that somebody should get the Nobel Peace Prize for starting an initiative. I don't think Obama should have gotten it when he did.
Jerry Michalski: Obama, the Peace Prize he got seems complete…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: No, it was performative, and I don't think Trump should… deserves it now, but he might well deserve it in a year, if this thing holds. Yeah, and that's… and that challenges my pictures of a bumbling, narcissistic, you know, baby guy. Kimmel's been reaming him beautifully every night, and really brilliant work going on there.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But that doesn't mean that he can't do some things successfully and well.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it may be that just the character that he brings to it was very different than Biden's.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: could generate movement in the Middle East that nobody else could. So, cautiously optimistic there. Big change in my worldview, because I have him on the neg list for everything, except now.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: One thing's moved over. Maybe. Maybe.
Jerry Michalski: Maybe, maybe, maybe. Okay, good. So I want to loosen up that part of the topic. My buddy Al Chang, who always says wise things and always thinks differently than I do, but we can talk really, really well.
Jerry Michalski: Said a while ago that it's as if there's this set of facts on the ground, and the left and the right are seeing roughly the same fact, roughly.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Mmm.
Jerry Michalski: But roughly the same facts, but have a completely different movie script around them, a totally different narrative. But the narratives are relatively consistent and work. And the two sides can't see or read
Jerry Michalski: each other's narratives. They're incapable, and this is… this is… I'm paraphrasing Al Badley, but… but he really kind of made me slow down a little bit, and think, how do I steal man?
Jerry Michalski: the opposing narrative. How do I actually put my brain into it and listen for those different parts? So when Trump was like, I've stopped eight wars, I used Claude and ChatGPT to say, hey, what has… and Trump has actually… he has sent his people…
Jerry Michalski: all over the place to do stuff, and he claimed credit for India-Pakistan, which infuriated Modi and is stupid, but the other things that he claims to have done, he's actually been, like, on the ground… not him, on the ground. His people have been doing stuff that hasn't been done before.
Jerry Michalski: And that's very interesting to me, because he gives a damn about, like, you know, making a mark in foreign policy with his particular imprimatur. Anyway, Mike.
Mike Nelson: I don't know where to go exactly, but let me start by just saying that the commentary about the Nobel Peace Prize was.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: She said it's dedicated.
Mike Nelson: to the people of Venezuela, and that she thanks
Mike Nelson: Trump. I don't think… I don't think she used the word dedicated it.
Jerry Michalski: I got the quote, it's dedicated. It's, oops, let me see where I've…
Jerry Michalski: How did I… I'll find it.
Mike Nelson: Well, most of the quotations have been sort of two-phase, but anyway…
Jerry Michalski: So here, let me read it.
Mike Nelson: The fact is, is that she's in a bind. She has to be as obsequious as possible.
Jerry Michalski: That's a way of reading it. But listen to this. I dedicate the last sentence of a long post on X. I dedicate this prize to the suffering people of Venezuela and to President Trump for his decisive support of our cause, exclamation point.
Mike Nelson: Well, the first round, and she actually, I think she actually called him up.
Mike Nelson: And so… you know.
Jerry Michalski: call.
Mike Nelson: Yeah, but again, it's… If you're in her position.
Mike Nelson: And you've got somebody who's angry that he doesn't have the Peace Prize, and you need his help.
Mike Nelson: I mean, whether those words reflect what she really believes is what I'm saying. But the other thing I wanted to say is that,
Mike Nelson: I've been using the phrase cosplay diplomacy.
Mike Nelson: Over and over again.
Mike Nelson: Because that's what we're seeing. I mean, these claims that he somehow reconciled or stopped a fight between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Mike Nelson: I mean… It's… these are temporary things that are happening, but…
Mike Nelson: let's wait 5 years and look back, and particularly with Gaza. I mean, Gaza, he says he has a deal.
Mike Nelson: And maybe in the New York City real estate sense of the word deal, he has a deal where, okay.
Mike Nelson: We've got a common goal, and now let's figure out the details.
Mike Nelson: But no diplomat.
Mike Nelson: Would claim that what Hamas said they would half agree to.
Mike Nelson: is a final deal. I mean, it's already falling apart. So, in many ways, this is like the way that Trump ended the U.S. involvement in Afghanistan.
Mike Nelson: He didn't talk to the Afghan government, he talked to the Taliban, and they got a deal, which was completely vague, and didn't have any
Mike Nelson: Any checks, any way of making sure both parties did their, did their, fulfilled their piece of the deal.
Mike Nelson: And for his convenience, He set it up so that
Mike Nelson: The withdrawal happened after he was out of office.
Mike Nelson: And Biden got to have all this egg on his face because of an incompetent deal that Trump and his team had agreed to.
Mike Nelson: And I really worry that if you've got a deal with Hamas that says they will disarm, but they explicitly said, we didn't agree to that part of the deal.
Mike Nelson: But he still thinks he deserves a Peace Prize.
Mike Nelson: But let me get… let me… let me change topics to a third thing that, is very personal, and that is, two days ago.
Mike Nelson: I got some incredibly… unforeseen, incredible… outrageous Very upsetting news.
Mike Nelson: about one of my favorite colleagues here at Carnegie, and some of you may have seen this story.
Mike Nelson: We have one of the very top analysts who studies Indian military and geopolitics.
Mike Nelson: And his house was raided recently by the FBI, and they found more than a thousand top-secret and confidential documents.
Mike Nelson: And, you know, he's been an advisor to the State Department, he knows full well how to handle classified documents.
Mike Nelson: But it's, you know, it's leading to all sorts of stories about, is he a spy for the Chinese? He hasn't been accused of that, but…
Mike Nelson: It's…
Mike Nelson: It's just astonishing that someone… if this is true, how could someone so smart and so, experienced be so stupid?
Mike Nelson: It's a little bit like Sandy Berger.
Mike Nelson: Clinton's National Security Advisor.
Mike Nelson: Who went to the archives and decided to take a couple documents and stuff them in his pants and walk out the door.
Mike Nelson: But on a much larger scale. And so, again, I mean, this was just… it's a complete disconnect from everything I know about this scholar, and it makes no sense, and…
Mike Nelson: I'm having a very hard time dealing with it. I don't know how I will.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you very much for offering up a completely different example of this thing going on, because that's what I'd love to focus on, is how do we handle unwelcome, ill-fitting news in our worldview.
Jerry Michalski: And do we allow our worldviews to be permeable to things like that, or not, or how, or, like, what's that… what's that juncture?
Jerry Michalski: Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Alright, Kevin, please.
Jerry Michalski: You took your hand down, but you… oh, there you go.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, you know, so this is actually the opposite of that. I've got some surprisingly great news I don't know how to put together.
Kevin Jones: Some people know, you know, our house was rendered uninhabitable, and 1 in 6 houses in our low-status neighborhood, that's one another, were rendered either destroyed or uninhabitable, about 400 houses.
Kevin Jones: And we've been asked to do a housing fund for the folks, and most of the Latino folks moved there because it was the cheapest place in the county.
Kevin Jones: And, we're starting to work with the community on it, and they're really a lot of credibility, and we got an outreach this week through my son, and we're gonna have 25 old-order Mennonite carpenters working… living on our farm, and they're self-contained, you know.
Kevin Jones: trucks and whatever they do. They're gonna, build houses for free from May
Kevin Jones: through, no, November through May, and I want to do it again, next year. And,
Kevin Jones: They're also going to leave behind a 30 by 40 foot, what is going to be their, mess hall.
Kevin Jones: eating room, whatever, behind this building, and they're gonna rehab our house for free. You know, do the… at least the sheetrock and the, the, insulation and stuff. We have to decide, you know, if it's a…
Kevin Jones: it becomes an Airbnb, you don't need the large mudroom that we had for 5 people, so you have to do some other things. But it's just amazingly, surprisingly good. You know, they're gonna clean it up, and they're gonna fix the house for free, and they're gonna build about 20 houses for free. So, you know, our…
Kevin Jones: Our raise for our fund.
Kevin Jones: It went down by, you know, the labor on 20 houses is not… no longer in our math for the first year. So it's like, well, you know, sometimes things happen like that, too. I just need to, you know.
Kevin Jones: Sometimes there are days like that, where everything… I'll do a brief thing, I was taking my son on a college trip, he's 407 now, so whatever, but we,
Kevin Jones: we were flying upstate New York to BART, I think it was, and we got upgraded to first class, and we got, you know, champagne or whatever in the morning, and then we got to the hotel.
Kevin Jones: And it was apparently closed, but there was this massive Samoan guy working on the phones. He said, just grab a key, and nobody ever came, so we sampled single moths from their deck that, you know, that was my first sampling of single moths.
Kevin Jones: we went to the movie Smoke, and they said, oh, we're through taking tickets, just go inside. So I told them, I said, look, you know.
Kevin Jones: sometimes there are days like this, you know? And so, you know, suddenly, you know, 25 to 30 older… and they wear straw hats, and they get driven around, and they'll bring some horse-drawn things, but they have, you know, they have people drive their…
Kevin Jones: their semi-trailer with all their tools, they use power tools, but it's just like, you know, sometimes things happen like that, I just need to say.
Jerry Michalski: Happy to hear, happy news around Swanoa, thank you.
Kevin Jones: Yeah, stitching together all these new resources is going to be really complicated. I need people who are…
Kevin Jones: much better at figuring out how to handle that than I am. And there are people around, so…
Jerry Michalski: Love that.
Jerry Michalski: Gil, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Kevin, why is that a challenge to your worldview?
Kevin Jones: Why as what?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Why is all that good stuff that's happened a challenge to your worldview, given that that's the thing.
Kevin Jones: Oh, it doesn't… no, sometimes things happen like that, it's just then you have to deal with this, you know, surprising abundance requires lots of coordination, you know? That's… I mean, you know, it would require lots of coordination. It doesn't challenge… no, it challenges the world in here, saying, let's think about bad things. I was saying, no, let's think about good things, too.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: deal. I love it.
Jerry Michalski: Jerry, by the way, could you raise the gain on your mic? You're much softer than everybody else. Oh, interesting.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: questions here.
Jerry Michalski: Pushed over to this, to this mic.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: With your fancy new mic.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, no.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Couple of things. Back on the Machado thing, it seems that obsequiousness is one of the required things with this president, and if you've watched a cabinet meeting, you know, you can see that in full cringe.
Stacey Druss: Bomb.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Seems to be a necessary part of any conversation.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Back to what you're saying, Jerry, about… about left and right seeing the same facts and developing different interpretations. You know that I'm… excuse me, I'm big on interpretations. I'm not big on facts these days. I think we live in interpretations, and that's part of the currency of human affairs and where it gets really interesting.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But part of the challenge right now is that left and right are not seeing the same facts.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Folks are in deep, deep bubbles, not even being exposed to the same information, things that we think are obvious, you know, folks who are living on Fox never see.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And vice versa. So it's a whole other layer of challenge.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: to how we have reasonable conversations when we're just looking at, you know, utterly same detail. In personal terms, I found that happening with me around the whole Gaza situation over the last 3 or 4 months, where I've come to the conclusion that I have no fucking clue.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Of what was going on there.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I don't trust Hamas and the Gaza Health Ministry or news services or anything like that. I don't trust the Israeli government's information. I don't trust the UN. And I try to piece together stories from anomalous reports that contradict each other.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: from people who aren't there, and I'm not there, and it's very strange for me to come to the conclusion that I really don't know what happened.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I'm happy to go into detail about that. I've done some numerical analysis, excuse me, of some of the data that's been reported, and things just don't cohere.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: From what I can see. And it's forced a kind of humility on me.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That's really unfamiliar.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm used to being able to, you know, look at a bunch of complex information and draw a conclusion that I have some confidence in.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And can't, in that case. So, double layer, not seeing the same facts, and, you know, mix-up facts that don't fit together.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Makes this even more challenging.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Gil. Is my voice a little louder? I found the gain and turned it up.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's better now, thanks.
Jerry Michalski: Is it loud enough? Should I turn it up more?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Somebody else say something.
Jerry Michalski: We're good?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: No, let's have somebody else say something comparable.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, somebody else too.
Jerry Michalski: compare levels.
Mike Nelson: Sounds good to me, Jerry.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Sounds fine, Jerry.
Jerry Michalski: Okay, good. Thank you for… Gil, thank you very much for pointing that out.
Jerry Michalski: On the point of not seeing the same facts, I want to complexify that a little bit, if I can borrow Adam Grant's, term. There's a book out, called Progressive Myths, I'll put a link to it in the chat, and I only know about it because my buddy Sammy Michaelonin.
Jerry Michalski: Finn, who lives in Melbourne, wrote a review about it.
Jerry Michalski: And, he said, this… and I'm just realizing this moment that this is a reason for the topic that we're on right now, is that this was in the back of my head, and I hadn't realized that, you know, I didn't connect it to the Gaza news. And…
Jerry Michalski: Apparently, in this book.
Jerry Michalski: a lot of what hap- which I've not read, a lot of what happens is the taking apart of situations where left and right disagree, and seeing that the situations are more complicated than you thought they were. That it isn't black and white, that it isn't this or that. And from my conversation with Al.
Jerry Michalski: I think… I think the left sees… I think a lot of the left believes that the right isn't even seeing things that happened, when what's happening sometimes, sometimes on the right is they're seeing the incident.
Jerry Michalski: But they're gathering different information about it and seeing it with a different lens or a different disaggregation of components. I don't know exactly how to say it.
Jerry Michalski: And since I haven't read the book, I don't know the details in it. But that's a piece of what I'm aiming for is, hey, how do we…
Jerry Michalski: Might we be able to have more interesting conversations about things that have happened if we allowed the complexity to show up in this space, and the possibility that
Jerry Michalski: the other side isn't completely stupid and evil. Which, which, I hear a lot.
Jerry Michalski: like, really. Years ago, in 2015, I think this was before the 2016 election.
Jerry Michalski: April and I visited some dear family friends who live in Boulder, and we had a friendly political conversation in which I said, Trump is actually sort of smarter than people think he is. And there was no synonym for smart that I could use that would make them go, oh, okay, we sort of agree. So we had a little bet going, and it turned into a funny thing.
Jerry Michalski: But, you know, smart like a mafia Don, maybe? I don't know, but it's some sort of intelligent, because nobody survives 91 federal indictments, and winds up running the world and, you know, closing a deal in Gaza, who is an idiot. Like, I don't see how you can just be lucky enough to do that.
Jerry Michalski: And I'll put a link to my… in fact, I created some videos during the pandemic about Trump. I created a field manual around Donald Trump. It's 6 videos. I'll just put a link to the playlist, and the very first one is, Trump is Smarter Than People Think.
Jerry Michalski: Right?
Jerry Michalski: And it's hard to say. And so I'm trying to figure out
Jerry Michalski: how do we not make the situations black and white, and like, oh my god, when they do hateful things, like boast that they have to be given a Nobel Peace Prize, what person in their right mind does that? Like, nobody goes and says, you must give me this award, I deserve… like, that's…
Jerry Michalski: well, okay, maybe that's just this guy's style. And there are things that Trump and his minions have done which are horrifying and are hurting… are harming people, and I am, like, dramatically opposed to those, but I…
Jerry Michalski: I'm trying to find words to say, how do we not look at all of this and say, there's nothing in here that we can talk about, or that we can agree on, or that whatever else? So…
Jerry Michalski: Gil, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Somebody can be both smart and not in their right mind.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: somebody can be smart about certain things and stupid about other things. Somebody can be, you know, can be effective in certain ways and, ineffective in other ways. And this guy is complicated.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And that's part of the challenge here. You know, again, I don't think we're seeing the same facts. I sometimes hop between MSNBC and Fox News in the evening.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And you'd think they're on different planets.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: the story's just, you know, covered on one, not covered at all on the other. Not just covered differently, but just not covered at all. Things that we might think totally important, not there all week on Fox. So, there's that as kind of one of the bases of it.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But I hear… I hear and really resonate, Jerry, with what you're saying, because we're… there's a tendency
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I don't think this is left or right, maybe it's modern capitalist culture of really polarizing and calling things black and white that are complex and, you know, washing out nuance.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And, yeah, and it's part of the mess that we're in. I've shared before a friend I've made on the MAGA ride, introduced by a mutual friend who we both love and trust, and
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We had a fascinating first conversation.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: ostensibly, it was gonna be about climate, and I was gonna change his mind about things, and
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: discovered him changing my mind about things around supply-side economics and other stuff. We came out of that conversation loving each other. We're still friends. We still disagree.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We have changed each other, you know, we sometimes… we occasionally agree in surprising ways, and often don't, but we found a way to have that different kind of conversation that you're talking about.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm just back from the Sustainable Brands Conference in San Diego, and one of the presentations on
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Monday was from a guy named Bill Shireman, who's a longtime friend of mine, who's probably my favorite Republican environmentalist.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: used to, used to organize with Nader, around, the California Bottle Bill, and parted ways on other political issues. Bill did a presentation about how to talk to MAGA.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And one of the things he did, one of the… one of the pieces that stood out was he set up a pair of slides of four MAGA people and four progressive people, and said, look, you know, these sides are not at all the same.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: you know, on the Republican side, you've got, you know, you've got Bannon, and you've got Pence, and you've got Alex Jones, and you've got, whoever, Mike Johnson.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Not all the same people, not all the same thinking, analyses, political positions, and so forth, but we lump them. And you can do the same thing on the left.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it's very easy to, you know, to… to…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Humans seem to love to categorize.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We love to take shades of gray, as Dave might talk about, and try to, you know, try to delineate them and put them into boxes, and say, this is this and not that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And real often in the physical world, it's not that way, even around things like shades of gray and colors. You know, we've talked about the color maps that are red and named differently in different cultures. You know, what I will call blue, someone in Japan will call green.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So how do we have a conversation?
Jerry Michalski: And Russian apparently has 4 different words for blue, yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So this is… this is really important territory, and it's very challenging, and we're in a culture that doesn't support the kind of conversation that you're proposing that we have.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Gil. Yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We're… whoop…
Stacey Druss: Oh, wow. Can you tell me what… I'm.
Jerry Michalski: career.
Stacey Druss: Chatham House rules there. You tell me what.
Jerry Michalski: Chatham House is an organization in England, and when you say something is under Chatham House rules, it means you, everything that's said under this meeting
Jerry Michalski: which cannot be identified with the speaker. You can't say, so-and-so said this. You can, my understanding under Chatham House is, you can write about what got said, you just can't attribute it to anybody without their agreement. So if you need to quote… if Kevin said something that you want to write about in an article, you'd have to contact Kevin, get his approval to say Kevin said it.
Jerry Michalski: But I believe you can still say someone said X.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yes.
Mike Nelson: But you can't reveal who was there, because sometimes saying that this was said will be immediately linked to the one person in the room who would have said it.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, and I… Jerry, I was not clear about this for a long time. I was very surprised when I first discovered that OGM was being posted to YouTube, because I had talked about very personal things in these meetings that I assumed were just among us. So, the ground rules should be made more clear, especially if there's new people coming in.
Doug Breitbart: It just… I have a question, because I think in the posting to YouTube.
Doug Breitbart: The chat is not shared, it's just the video, correct?
Jerry Michalski: I don't post the chat on YouTube, but I do make the chat very available.
Doug Breitbart: Right. But I mean, in terms of this particular session, and Kalia, what you raised in the chat.
Doug Breitbart: It wasn't voiced in the video.
Doug Breitbart: So, I think you're okay.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, I… yeah, that's fine, and I… but I will… I will… I don't usually edit these. I will edit, Kalia's drop-in…
Jerry Michalski: And now it's more… much more complicated because we're talking about it, so I'm gonna have to edit twice. But I will also clip what Kalia wrote in the chat.
Jerry Michalski: As well.
Jerry Michalski: Before I share the chat back up.
Jerry Michalski: Cool, then that didn't work so well, my apologies. And I should mention more often that these videos I do post directly… I'm a big believer in sort of open conversations, and these videos do go to YouTube, and that will have an effect on what we decide to talk about, and I'm…
Jerry Michalski: Quite aware of that.
Jerry Michalski: So, my apologies for not repeating that more often, because we actually all should be quite aware of that.
Jerry Michalski: Tug.
Doug Breitbart: So, yeah, I… I, I was really… I was really intrigued by your intro to this session.
Doug Breitbart: And had… had an experience in the last 24 hours with a post.
Doug Breitbart: that, sort of… The combination of the two, I think, is worth sharing.
Doug Breitbart: So there was… there was a post that…
Doug Breitbart: Did, like, a serious drill down on… Our current… Supreme Court.
Doug Breitbart: head.
Doug Breitbart: And his relationship and history with the Voting Rights Act.
Doug Breitbart: Which is long and deep and anti, with a capital A.
Doug Breitbart: And… I read this piece, which was… Very granded, very credible, and…
Doug Breitbart: Shed Him for me in a completely different light.
Doug Breitbart: Like, I've experienced his position as sort of an unknown quasi-neutral?
Doug Breitbart: in terms of the persona that I think he's publicly attempted to achieve for himself, Roberts.
Doug Breitbart: But what this post made clear was, no, he's a hardcore ideologue about certain things related to presidential power and related to, killing the Voting Rights Act.
Doug Breitbart: And… There was the theater and illusion, the public persona, and then there was the, oh.
Doug Breitbart: Bat.
Doug Breitbart: And then connecting that to… So we know which way this whole redistricting thing is gonna come out.
Doug Breitbart: And it's not gonna be good.
Doug Breitbart: And,
Doug Breitbart: And my…
Doug Breitbart: orientation to receiving that recalibration. Like, it was exactly what you described in the intro to this session of receiving something that's just like, oh.
Doug Breitbart: was… I can be reactive to that, or…
Doug Breitbart: I can just sort of recalibrate.
Doug Breitbart: My understanding of the world.
Doug Breitbart: Like, that's the way that piece of the existing puzzle… is, in fact… And,
Doug Breitbart: It gives me a better sense of The degree to which…
Doug Breitbart: Effectively, the court system has been zeroed out as well.
Doug Breitbart: Well, while the sort of wishful thinking underlying sense impression up to that moment was, maybe there's some salvation to be had out of the court system, but no, it's been done, like, taken care of.
Doug Breitbart: going back to… going back to when this guy was a law clerk for Rehnquist. And, and it was sort of like…
Doug Breitbart: There are all those knock-on recalibration, reconfiguration of
Doug Breitbart: The way of seeing what is.
Doug Breitbart: as sort of a ripple effect. It's sort of an update of the vision, of the map, of the picture.
Jerry Michalski: Can you describe that a little bit more?
Doug Breitbart: Yeah, so… you know, if I'm carrying this mosaic of, you know, the state of our government.
Doug Breitbart: And it's… it's…
Doug Breitbart: decimation. And I'm looking for pockets of integrity being held. I'm looking for pockets of structural, you know, persistence against the destruction and collapse.
Doug Breitbart: And I believe there are still some features of that landscape effective functioning and operating.
Doug Breitbart: And all of a sudden, like, the one sort of remaining pillar that…
Doug Breitbart: That held some promise is neutral… is zeroed out.
Doug Breitbart: So, effectively, it's all gone.
Doug Breitbart: And how bad will they make it? How bad does it get?
Doug Breitbart: How much will that…
Doug Breitbart: manifest.
Doug Breitbart: You know, in consequences.
Doug Breitbart: And I'm, you know, picking up… data bits about…
Doug Breitbart: Failure sectors in the economy that are not public, you know, that haven't been, like, highlighted.
Doug Breitbart: You know, the number of… farmer…
Doug Breitbart: Bankruptcy filings under, under, under 12.
Doug Breitbart: Is going through the roof.
Doug Breitbart: And, and they're not… they don't have the labor to harvest crops. So, like that, you know, how soon do the supermarket shelves start going there?
Doug Breitbart: you know, this is like now. This isn't some objective future, this is now. And, you know.
Doug Breitbart: Since the current course doesn't suggest
Doug Breitbart: actions within agencies are being governed by any sense of rule of law anymore. So, you know, when does Social Security checks stop?
Doug Breitbart: for me.
Doug Breitbart: Because of whatever category I fall into, or whatever office gets decimated through layoffs.
Doug Breitbart: So, it's, it's, it's very much, trying to… find clarity Personal clarity, sense of balance.
Doug Breitbart: what is real… you know, what is my reality?
Doug Breitbart: Now.
Doug Breitbart: I don't… I really endeavor… To not react.
Doug Breitbart: But to figure out, you know, how to relate.
Doug Breitbart: It's not even rising to the level of how to respond, or how to act.
Doug Breitbart: or do, or contrib… or whatever, like, that's a whole secondary thing. It's like, How to… how to relate.
Doug Breitbart: To the scale and scope of changing reality.
Doug Breitbart: And find my ground first.
Doug Breitbart: before going to the, okay, so… is there a way I want to respond or directly engage in… in some kind of collaborative way, or…
Doug Breitbart: communication or, you know, engagement way, like going on Saturday to the local You know, no kings.
Doug Breitbart: demonstration.
Doug Breitbart: So, just slowing it down, and checking in.
Doug Breitbart: So, I just, yeah, I'm complete.
Jerry Michalski: Thanks, Doug. You've brought a bunch of things into my…
Jerry Michalski: brain that I want to share out.
Jerry Michalski: First, I'm among probably a large group of Americans who are pretty convinced that ICE tracking down immigrants, a lot of whom are agricultural farm workers, and the tariffs and all that kind of stuff would lead to, by now, by now, pretty miserable inflation and food shortages and other kinds of things.
Jerry Michalski: There are… there are some price bumps, but I don't… I don't think that… I don't think that dreadful future has materialized. The system has adapted, and this… the ball… the shoe may drop later, I don't know.
Jerry Michalski: But it didn't materialize the way the catastrophizers said immediately it was going to. And that happens all the time on all sides, right? So, that reminded me of the book Super Forecasting.
Jerry Michalski: by, Philip Tetlock.
Jerry Michalski: And he talks in the book about what makes a good forecast. And the problem is that most futurists and forecasters and all that make crappy forecasts where you really can't tell whether they were right or wrong. And that's the sign of a good weasel forecast, is you say something that gets you some news.
Jerry Michalski: And that can't be pinned down later on. It's like, oh, I was just off on the date, it happened but 5 years later. Like, yeah, that was a bad forecast.
Jerry Michalski: And so he has criteria with the Good Judgment Project. And he's found some people who are really, really good super forecasters. And I'm wondering, to what extent, and this would be a very nice sense-making, global brain-y kind of thing.
Jerry Michalski: To what extent can or should the
Jerry Michalski: people writing about stuff try to do better on these fronts, and then judge themselves afterward. And I… I highly respect
Jerry Michalski: bloggers and substackers and other sorts of people who occasionally say, hey, here's how I did on last year's predictions, or on last, you know, whatever it is. When they go back and grade themselves, even if sometimes they're a little lenient on themselves.
Jerry Michalski: That's interesting, because at least there's some kind of feedback loop
Jerry Michalski: of what's happening there, right? So, I'm very interested in the feedback and the social feedback, and also then I'll add.
Jerry Michalski: forecasting is really hard because some of these systems that we're talking about, like global warming, tipping points, and all that, are deeply nonlinear, and by the time you detect the third dot or the fourth dot, the fifth dot is way the hell north of where you thought it was going to be, and we're in serious, serious trouble. And how do you use the feedback I'm describing, and public discourse, and news, and other sorts of things that are
Jerry Michalski: heightened, that are improved in some way by doing some of what I just described, in a situation where when one of these things runs amok, it could run really amok. And the way Trump handles foreign policy
Jerry Michalski: man, if Putin feels cornered and decides to throw nukes, that's gonna change the game considerably, right? And I don't know how these things play out, but I'm wondering how all that works. Gil, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Total yes, Jerry.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And, you know, again, it's the hazard of, of, of,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, the lack of sensitivity and complexity, and for people to see nuance and see complex systems and understand that cause and effect is not all that it's cracked up to be.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And how do you navigate in the midst of all that uncertainty? On the prediction thing, the great Ken Watt was trying to put together something decades ago to do a systematic retrospective analysis of predictions.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which I don't know that anybody's ever done. You know, you look at market touts who are predicting the same thing for decades, and then all of a sudden they're right when that thing happens, you know, but they've been saying it every year, forever.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I've been describing myself lately as a futurist who's given up predicting the future.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I think it's a fool's game at this point.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Something else?
Jerry Michalski: The Institute for the Future says we don't do predictions, we make forecasts, which are practical, plausible projections of something that might happen in the future, but we don't know and nobody can tell which one's gonna play out.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, and, you know, and that's the power of scenario analysis, among other tools, exactly for that. People think it's predictive, but it's not. It's for… it's to sensitize us to possibility, and hopefully change the way that we think about stuff. There was something else I wanted to say, but it slipped, so off to someone else.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Oh, yeah, yes, the thing you said, Jerry, about,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We haven't seen the impact of the farm labor shortage yet. Don't get too confident.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It's still the first season. There's still more harvests to come. It's,
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, I don't have detailed analysis on it, but the mood that I'm getting is that there's a mess looming.
Jerry Michalski: I hear ya. Yeah. And I'd love to sort of say that that means this number by this date, or something. And I don't know that I challenge OGMers to always pin things down that way, but we might… we might want to have a session
Jerry Michalski: about what a good forecast looks like, and just train ourselves a bit. Go find a couple videos and have somebody volunteer to brief us
Jerry Michalski: On how to be more precise about forecasts.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: For sure. Let me personalize a bit, coming off of what Doug said. On the Social Security thing, we've been looking at a bunch of financial and real estate decisions, and early this year, we decided that we couldn't make certain moves because Social Security might just get yanked.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: which would completely change our spectrum of financial options. We've come to the conclusion now that it's probably not going to get yanked for folks like us.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: you know, on… on… we've been on Social Security for 10 years, etc. For folks coming into the system, very much at risk. People not yet retired don't count on it at all.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: People may be a year or two in, may be at risk. I think for later folks, probably not. But, again, so there's a calculation.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Based on very incomplete data and all sorts of stuff that we have no way to know anything about.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And yet, we have to make decisions.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I mean, it's one of the more stressful things we've worked through, that we can remember.
Jerry Michalski: And decision-making under uncertainty is one of those monster themes, right?
Jerry Michalski: Stacy, please.
Stacey Druss: Yeah, speaking to your idea about prediction, as I was thinking about this yesterday, because as you know, I'm interested in engaging people in conversations, and I was just thinking it would be so nice if we could have a conversation that starts with
Stacey Druss: If this is true, then we would expect to see this.
Stacey Druss: If this is true, we would expect to see this. My particular area that I was focused on has to do with immigration, because I'm trying to convince the people in my community that this is a money grab and a for-profit detention, because I'm combating the local
Stacey Druss: Misinformation that's going on.
Stacey Druss: what I'm actually seeing… I mean, in one case, I'm very happy. After somebody was…
Stacey Druss: detained for over 2 months, they were finally released. I'm grateful they were released. I don't want to throw attention on the judges that are eventually releasing the people, but at the same time, I have a feeling we're gonna look back
Stacey Druss: And we're gonna see all this money that was spent detaining people to finally release them back to their families.
Stacey Druss: So, to me, It would be productive to say.
Stacey Druss: Okay, let's look at that. That's one scenario. Let's see how many people, after they finally show up in court.
Stacey Druss: We wind up sending back.
Stacey Druss: At least if we could have a conversation and maybe have that taped.
Stacey Druss: have that drive the spotlight to look on individual cases, and what's going on locally, where on a local level, we really see firsthand who's getting targeted, and why they're getting targeted, and all those things. It could bring the people in the middle together. You know, Gil put in the chat that the speaker had said that
Stacey Druss: one way of looking at the difference between the left and the right is that the right look, you know, the right are, like, looking at themselves as protectors, and the left is liberators. And to a certain degree, I think that's true, and for me, I always look at the intersection.
Stacey Druss: You know, where are those people right in the middle? Because depending on who I'm talking to, I try to get them to see the other piece that they're missing. So, like, if I'm talking to that protector person, I'm going to recognize that and showing how this action is a protecting one, and vice versa.
Stacey Druss: But, again, we're always behind the eight ball of predicting. Like, why can't we jump ahead
Stacey Druss: and get together, all of us, and say, okay, everybody, let's brainstorm. We're not saying who's right or wrong. If this is the case.
Stacey Druss: This is what we're gonna see. If this is the case, this is what we're gonna see. Let's just agree on…
Stacey Druss: What would happen if Instead of digging down on, this is what's happening.
Stacey Druss: Over.
Jerry Michalski: So, thanks, Stacey. So, making these
Jerry Michalski: forecasts, and I'll use the word very loosely, more provisional or conditional on some facts on the ground, or things like that.
Jerry Michalski: I think that makes sense.
Stacey Druss: Seeing on what the measurement would…
Stacey Druss: Like, let's just agree on that, because also, it will help people come in at a beginner's level and generate some ideas. Like, let's just start at the beginner's level.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: You've also reminded me that the same administration that is doing those kinds of things
Jerry Michalski: has unmarked cars on the street with, ICE people who have no badges visible and have masks on, who are abducting people.
Jerry Michalski: And, I grew up partly in Argentina. I'm old enough that we left Argentina just before the dirty war started.
Jerry Michalski: And I went back in… 89, I guess, at some point? I think… no, sorry, 80… in 85.
Jerry Michalski: I had a project, actually, that took me to Buenos Aires, Argentina, and as a goodbye gift, they gave me the book Nunca Mas, which means Never Again, which is a book compiled out of all of the testimonies from the Truth and Reconciliation Commissions that happened in Argentina after the dirty War.
Jerry Michalski: And one of the interesting factors in Argentina was, during the dirty War, the Ford Falcon.
Jerry Michalski: A dark green Ford Falcon was a very scary car to see in the street, because that's what the military police and others used to abduct people. So if a Ford Falcon pulled up in front of your house, they were probably gonna, like, search you and maybe take you away, and maybe you wouldn't be seen again.
Jerry Michalski: And, and so, for me, the, the idea that, that.
Jerry Michalski: people on American streets, and I won't say American citizens, because maybe they're not, I don't know, but people walking down American streets or being abducted with no identification, and we don't know where they go is deeply, deeply frightening, because it leads, for me, straight to things that I think are horrible historically.
Jerry Michalski: And I don't know which parts of that little narrative to complexify and to say, oh, but, and this there, and I don't know. I don't know.
Jerry Michalski: It's, it's… these are… we live in troubling, scary times, and I'm… part of this conversation is to say, how do we handle these conversations in a way that lets us be… remain a bit pliable or permeable.
Jerry Michalski: So that we can find more understanding, and so forth.
Jerry Michalski: Gil, go ahead.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And, You know, put the masked… the masked armed thugs in unmarked vehicles together with stand-your-ground laws.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And then what happens?
Jerry Michalski: Well, also, the… the Black Panther Party
Jerry Michalski: originally was the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, I believe.
Jerry Michalski: And they, found a law that said you can stand, you can be armed and stand as long as you're X number of yards or feet away from police, you can stand there armed and watch them. And, you know, it's legal.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But we're in a time when legal doesn't matter.
Jerry Michalski: I totally agree.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And they're, you know, and they're arresting people who are standing there videoing them from across the street.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, they're operating in extra-legal ways, and one of my fears is that the court system, the entire legal system, is now disabled.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Well, hang on.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah. Good.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: One of the other talks at Sustainable Brands was from Andrew Winston, saying that… I'm gonna go a little sideways for a moment here, saying that he keeps… he's a major speaker to sustainable business, and he's always asked, he says, is sustainability dead?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And he said, no, it's not dead, it's under attack.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which is different.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, and things aren't under attack unless there's reason for them to be attacked. So, same thing here. The court system is not over, it's very much under threat.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Most of the decisions, there's, like, hundreds of lawsuits against these guys, and most of them they have lost.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: What's up for question is where the Supremes are gonna go.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Because we're at the mercy here of a 40-year project by Rehnquist and Alito to do what they're doing.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: It was just laid out back during the Nixon administration.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Or whenever Reagan, I guess, is what they were under. They were not… they're not quite old enough for that. you know, so we don't know. That… that… I mean, you know, there's voting rights decisions that could come this week or next week that could change, you know, that could lock the elections down.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: for a long time to come, if we have elections. So, I don't mean to make light of it, but the courts are an important battleground.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Notable yesterday, I don't know if people saw this on the news, but pretty much unified the national news organizations refused to sign Pete Hegseth's loyalty oath.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And maybe people are starting to realize that, that instead of letting, Trump pick you off one by one, as surprisingly the major law firms did.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And a lot of the universities did.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: People can actually forge common purpose and fight back.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And what does that mean in terms of bad Supreme Court decisions? I don't know.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But I'm not, you know, gay man over till a fat lady's sung, or whatever the expression is, and…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: She ain't sung yet.
Jerry Michalski: Surprised that saying had some, you know, such long legs.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Over time.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, well, the Pat lady had short legs, but that's a different thing.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah, who knows?
Jerry Michalski: Anyone else? Thoughts on this topic?
Jerry Michalski: concerns… Disagreements.
Jerry Michalski: Wishes.
Jerry Michalski: Should research topics.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: No, it's obviously time to be quiet for a while.
Jerry Michalski: We could be quiet for a little while, see what shows up.
Mike Nelson: Well, this is Mike not being quiet.
Mike Nelson: I do think one of the strategies you outlined at the very start is…
Mike Nelson: Being quiet long enough to understand that you may have been wrong about something you assumed to be right.
Mike Nelson: And,
Mike Nelson: Unfortunately, we're not given time to do that anymore. I mean, I don't think we've been given time to do that for 30 or 40 years.
Mike Nelson: We used to have… I still go to church, and there's some meditation time there, but…
Mike Nelson: even that is typically 30 seconds, you know? I mean, if we have a really meaningful sermon, maybe there'll be 2 minutes where people just kind of calm and, you know, what do I want to take home from this?
Mike Nelson: But I, I do think we'd, we…
Mike Nelson: We're so overstressed, we're so sleep-deprived.
Mike Nelson: That we… we don't know how to handle the,
Mike Nelson: Confused inputs that are coming from all these different directions and contradicting themselves.
Mike Nelson: One of my favorite hashtags lately has been discombobulation.
Mike Nelson: I know.
Mike Nelson: disinformation… Leads to deception.
Mike Nelson: Leads to discord. Leads to discombobulation.
Mike Nelson: leads to… Despair and or apathy.
Mike Nelson: And that's a short step to dictatorship.
Mike Nelson: Because if enough people just sit on the sidelines and throw up their hands and say, I don't know what's going on.
Mike Nelson: That's where we end up.
Jerry Michalski: two… two reactions to what you just said, Mike. One positive, one negative. The negative one is, one of the current tactics of the current, at least, far right, is to flood the zone with shit.
Jerry Michalski: That is a very explicit tactic, that if you have people too busy
Jerry Michalski: to deal with, they'll just drop everything. And also, too confused about which side to be on, because, oh, wait a minute, the baddie is funding the good guys that I'm listening to, maybe I should stop listening to the good guys?
Jerry Michalski: And, there's a documentary I love called Hypernormalization by Adam Curtis, where he talks about Putin and his Lieutenant Surkov.
Jerry Michalski: who were doing this for years, years ago. They were sort of busy honing this, perfecting this art of flooding the zone with shit.
Jerry Michalski: And that's happening.
Jerry Michalski: But on the other hand, maybe this is the positive side, I don't know. This is also about attention management. And Ken Homer just sent us a love… wrote us a lovely poem, you know, that he just read to us, about stepping out of the torrent and the conversations and things like that.
Jerry Michalski: it's not that we aren't given the time, it's that we don't make the time. I think that it's…
Jerry Michalski: possible, and when there's too much information, I don't mean you can subtly, magically make the time to know all of that and to sort it out. I think what you do is you step out of it and have focus on something else.
Jerry Michalski: But…
Jerry Michalski: There's a growing little niche in the world about how do you cope with change, and how do you maintain equanimity in the face of
Jerry Michalski: Actual turbulence, and political turbulence, and emotional turbulence, and other kinds of things that are happening.
Jerry Michalski: And that's probably a good topic for an OGM call at some point, as well.
Jerry Michalski: Gil, please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, it is… it is a good topic.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: One of the things we've done in our house is dramatically cut down on our news diet.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, I suggest that as a possibility. On the matter of time and quiet, and Mike, thanks for what you said.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I don't know if people have watched Charlie Kirk's… competitive debate.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Forum.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I've seen Mehdi Hassan do this on the left, and Charlie Kirk do this on the right, where they sit at a table. It's like… like a… like a chess match table, small table.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: People facing off, and they're surrounded by a circle of about 20 or 30 people.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And anybody in the circle gets to come in and sit down opposing them and have a conversation with them. And it's like, it's like, what's the term for speed chess? You know, where you have the clock and you're moving really fast?
Jerry Michalski: It's, it's a, it's a high-speed competitive debate format.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it's interesting because it's, you know, it's showing off a kind of cognitive and communication skill, but it allows for no thought.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Allows for no reflection. Allows for no consideration. Highly polarizing. And, it's really, really weird to watch. I've seen both these guys do it, and I hate both of them doing it.
Jerry Michalski: I watched one with Mehdi doing it, and I was really turned off. He was… everybody was interrupting everybody.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, and he's like, you know, he's right in everybody's… I mean, there are things that I agree with him on, and found him hate… found myself hating him.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And it's… and in all of these things, back to what we were saying before, it's taking potentially complex or complicated issues and saying, no, it's not complicated.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: One of the reasons I stepped out of Facebook, which I did, like, a month ago now, is that I was in conversations where people were kind of, you know, not even people I knew, people who knew people I knew were jumping into conversations I was having and yelling at me, saying, it's not complicated. What's the matter with you?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I think, my God, it really is, so…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So I decided to step back. It's another kind of quiet, less social media.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We're very selective social media.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which, reminder, we all know this here, but it's worth remind… remembering that in that machinery, we are the product.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: We think it's something that we're using. We're the product.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Anytime the service is free.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You know, the product.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, I'll stop here.
Jerry Michalski: Well, I'm not sure any… I'm not sure that with the conclusion, anytime the service is free, we are the product, because in commons, and in a different world, on a parallel plane in the multiverse, lots of things can be free, and it's not because we are the product being sold off, it's because…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I heard that as I was saying it, Sherry.
Jerry Michalski: we're actually sharing resources in an abundant way, yada yada yada, probably another good topic for an OGM call.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Kevin and his Mennonite… Mennonite carpenters, not… not.
Jerry Michalski: I like that.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I totally, totally get it.
Jerry Michalski: Like that, exactly. So, thank you for that.
Jerry Michalski: Scott, please.
Jerry Michalski: Scott, you need to unmute.
Jerry Michalski: Scott, you need to come back to the keyboard. There you are, good.
Jerry Michalski: Yes, we're hearing you now.
Scott Moehring: I'm actually on the road, so I will, but…
Scott Moehring: So you can all hear me?
Jerry Michalski: Yes, you sound like you're in a car, but we can hear you just fine.
Scott Moehring: I am in a car, but I will try to make it less… less car-shot.
Scott Moehring: I am enjoying this particular call in its entirety more than I have in a while.
Scott Moehring: I am seeing or hearing a humbleness.
Scott Moehring: uncertainty.
Scott Moehring: that I… or uncertainty, rather. I'm not exactly sure how to say that.
Scott Moehring: I'm appreciating everyone saying, you know, this is something that I wasn't expecting.
Scott Moehring: And it's making me think about something differently.
Scott Moehring: And I'm actually open to that.
Scott Moehring: And I think that that is, if there is a route, That's…
Scott Moehring: you know, our current crises, I think that that's Definitely one of them.
Scott Moehring: Is that we are… I don't know if anybody saw, I wrote in the Plex this.
Scott Moehring: Most recent issue about Comple- compression.
Jerry Michalski: Yep.
Scott Moehring: And sometimes I have a phrase that comes out, and I don't actually
Scott Moehring: Will it to come out? It just comes out, and then I see it, and I think, huh.
Scott Moehring: That's actually kind of neat.
Scott Moehring: And it was… Consuming more of less.
Scott Moehring: And I thought that was interesting, because the way I thought of that, after I read it, after the words came out, I thought.
Scott Moehring: Yeah, that's really what it is. It's just… This idea of…
Scott Moehring: I already know what that is, so I don't need to consume any more of it.
Scott Moehring: And I go, look for the next thing, and the next thing, without actually really getting into the thing that…
Scott Moehring: I've already summed up in some way, but…
Scott Moehring: Sorry, my thoughts are a little all over the place. I appreciated Stacy's comments about making predictions, and then making second predictions.
Scott Moehring: and just… putting some stake in there, instead of saying, I know exactly what's gonna happen.
Scott Moehring: And… We're probably wrong.
Scott Moehring: at least in some way, we're probably wrong. I appreciated your comment, Jerry, about,
Scott Moehring: You know, futurists, and trying to make predictions and guesses, and then actually being Held accountable to
Scott Moehring: To at least the prediction.
Scott Moehring: You know, I think that that's all really important, and it's a humbleness. I think that's my only teaching.
Scott Moehring: It's the willingness to say, you know.
Scott Moehring: I bet I don't see everything. I bet I don't know everything.
Scott Moehring: And if something shows up, am I willing to incorporate that into my own mental model, allow it to be changed?
Jerry Michalski: Thank you very much. Totally, really appreciate your reflections on
Jerry Michalski: On the nature of this column.
Jerry Michalski: you're calling things out I hadn't really noticed about the call, which I love.
Jerry Michalski: So, that's great.
Jerry Michalski: Anyone else? Thoughts?
Jerry Michalski: Actually…
Jerry Michalski: Let's go into that little moment of silence that Gil mentioned a moment ago. I will bring us back out in a moment to
Jerry Michalski: Thank you very much.
Jerry Michalski: Reflections? Jokes?
Jerry Michalski: Other things?
Scott Moehring: I did have one other thing, actually, that I forgot to mention. Sorry, Jerry.
Jerry Michalski: Go ahead, and then Stacey.
Scott Moehring: when I was reading your email about
Scott Moehring: precipitated this. Here's the theme of the call.
Scott Moehring: I was thinking… of that.
Scott Moehring: a quote that I will misquote slightly, Which is… it's amazing…
Scott Moehring: What you can get done, if nobody cares who gets the credit.
Scott Moehring: So, I'm just throwing that out there, I don't know if you want to
Scott Moehring: Riff on that a little bit, but if that's what it seemed like, was happening,
Scott Moehring: This is, you know, ceasefire, awesome! Right? Like, that's kind of what we want, but…
Scott Moehring: There's the issue of credit.
Scott Moehring: And… and that is part of it, at the… So, that's all for me.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you. The quote I have is from Harry Truman. It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.
Jerry Michalski: And it's very likely one of those things that's been said by… actually, there's a Quote Investigator article about this that has a whole bunch of other people saying it, and their phrase is, a man may do an immense deal of good if he does not care who gets the credit, and I'll post both of those in the chat.
Stacey Druss: I thought Craig Bonnegan said that.
Jerry Michalski: See? Seeing?
Mike Nelson: It was Al Gore's favorite quotation when he was vice president, partly because it was said by a previous vice president when he was vice president and invisible.
Mike Nelson: And every time Gore tried to stand up and take credit for something.
Mike Nelson: Boom! They just… they worked so hard to make sure He, was misrepresented, misquoted.
Mike Nelson: At one point, he got excited about a project, a very cheap satellite that was going to orbit in the L1 point between the Earth and the Sun, and provide 24-hour-a-day coverage
Mike Nelson: of the sunny side of the Earth. I mean, literally less than $200 million.
Mike Nelson: And, as a NASA project goes, that's pretty darn cheap. And the Senate Republicans held it up for 5 years, just because Gore thought it was a good idea.
Mike Nelson: The entire community thought it was a great idea, incredibly cost-effective, but…
Mike Nelson: They held it up. They didn't want him getting any credit for anything. They knew he was gonna run for…
Mike Nelson: For president, and they didn't want him to have any accomplishments.
Jerry Michalski: Which is a marvel to me because Gore is Obama's Oh, sorry.
Jerry Michalski: I've got the, the…
Mike Nelson: Clinton's vice president.
Jerry Michalski: Clinton's vice president, that's right. Because later, later, Obama… I'm pretty certain the right doesn't want Obama to succeed on anything.
Jerry Michalski: And he does. He manages to have the economy just go chug-chug-chug-chug-chug, and he manages to pass some degree of
Jerry Michalski: of health coverage and so forth that they've not been able to extinguish. I track in my brain the many times that the right has tried to get rid of Obamacare, and it's an astonishing… really, there have been astonishing battles fought to try to, you know, get rid of it. They've managed to weaken it, but not get rid of it entirely.
Jerry Michalski: At this point, at this point, the thing we haven't mentioned for 3 calls, or whatever, is the lockdown in, the government showdown over the budget.
Jerry Michalski: And, the shut… the government shut down.
Jerry Michalski: And one of the big issues is the continuation of the subsidies that allow Obamacare to be affordable. That is one of the monster issues on the table that the Democrats have decided is a hill to die on for this particular issue. And it feels to me like the Democrats have the sort of moral upper hand on this one, although
Jerry Michalski: Public opinion and moral upper hand don't always agree.
Mike Nelson: Fortunately, there's alliteration against them.
Mike Nelson: Schumer's shutdown.
Jerry Michalski: Schumer shut down out. There you go.
Mike Nelson: But yeah, 40 times, I think, they had votes or tried to…
Mike Nelson: put a poison pill into the, Obamacare program.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah. Yeah, it's astonishing.
Jerry Michalski: And I gotta say, Trump too, which is how I refer to the second Trump administration, is payback for milquetoast efforts within the bounds of the system to try to fight back on things that the right didn't like.
Jerry Michalski: And I'm sitting here thinking SCOTUS, the Supreme Court of the United States, is very Republican because they stole seats because the left didn't act up and say, hey, wait a minute, you can't do that. We're gonna do something dramatic.
Jerry Michalski: to make sure that we get to vote on those seats. Like, two seats on Supreme Court were basically stolen, as far as I can tell.
Mike Nelson: Yep.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I'm… I don't understand, Jay, that you say that's… that that's Trumpist reaction to what the Dems did. What we're seeing is the playing out of a 50-year explicitly written-about strategy.
Jerry Michalski: Also, yes.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, let's, you know, I think it's mythification to say, oh, they're angry at the Democrats who did or didn't do whatever. This has been… you know, they've been rolling out this game plan since 1973.
Jerry Michalski: Since the Powell memo in 70, I think.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I have the date wrong then, so I'm talking… Yeah, yeah.
Jerry Michalski: All memos.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Referencing the Powell memo. And if people haven't seen it, there's a movie called Heist, The Stealing of the American Dream.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That unfolds that story. It's a terrific piece of work. I'll find the link and post it for y'all.
Doug Breitbart: I'm not sure it doesn't trace back to the Civil War, Gil.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Well, there's that, too, and you can take it back, you know, another 100 years before that. But in terms of an explicit, published strategy…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And in the spirit of, you know, Maya Angelou, when people tell you who they are, believe them.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: You've got that there, you've got Bannon's writings, you've got Dugan's writings in the Russian sphere. None of this is mysterious.
Jerry Michalski: Huh?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Unless you get your information from the mass media, in which case it's mysterious.
Jerry Michalski: So I agree with your framing of this is a much longer battle than I was just saying. Partly, I think what I'm… what I was trying to say is…
Jerry Michalski: the right's attempts to stay within the lines of the legal system, et cetera, et cetera, did not work. They tried to bring things to the floor. The reason, I think, that most of what Trump does is by executive order and fiat and just acting outside of the bounds of what we think is…
Jerry Michalski: what is likely even legal to do, is that bringing things to the floor of Congress did not work for a long time. Trump won. Trump won, and a bunch of other efforts to tip over, you know, all these things.
Jerry Michalski: We're flailing.
Jerry Michalski: flailing. And the left is grateful that a bunch of adults in the room threw their bodies in front of the more radical things that Trump 1 wanted to do. And in between Trump 1 and Trump 2, everybody on the far right said, well, great, that didn't work.
Jerry Michalski: we're going to take a much more, much more dramatic approach, which is a fulfillment of things set in motion back in 1970, et cetera, et cetera, which was a reaction to Barry Goldwater losing the election in 64.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Which threw the Conservative Party into a dramatic crisis, into a huge identity crisis, out of which come these, I think.
Jerry Michalski: Long-term thinking brilliant strategies, and I don't see long-term thinkers on the left.
Jerry Michalski: And sorry, this has become a bit of a political conversation toward the end of our time together, but…
Jerry Michalski: Thoughts on this, other, other, other ways of seeing this, welcome. Please.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Throw them onto the table.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I don't think Powell contemplated Trump.
Jerry Michalski: I don't think Newt Gingrich contemplated a Trump. Like, Newt Ginger.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I think Powell was enough of an old, you know, small L liberal.
Jerry Michalski: Yeah.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: To not be looking for a coup. He was looking for, you know, playing out within the game. Gingrich…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: in Jane's interpretation, gets a lot of credit for the mess, because when he became Speaker, he changed the schedule.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: of the House of Representatives.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And basically…
Jerry Michalski: many things.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yeah, but this one is a pivotal one, because he shortened the work week so that members could go home on the weekends.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Quote, to be with their constituents.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: But the result of that is that the social relationships between Republican-Democrat members and their families, and their wives who had been friends, broke.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And maybe was one of the pivotal
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: One of the pivotal elements in the increasing polarization in the House.
Jerry Michalski: So, in my brain, I've got a thought. Gringrich created the current political rift in America. Under that, ways Gingrich transformed Congress.
Jerry Michalski: Do not cooperate, do not compromise, do not seek bipartisan solutions ever on anything.
Jerry Michalski: They got rid of,
Jerry Michalski: basically, he stopped people from… he instituted message discipline, he wouldn't let Republicans room with Democrats. They used to share crash pads in DC.
Jerry Michalski: They would rent a house with four bedrooms, and then Republicans and Democrats would room together and dine together and all that. He made that basically illegal. He said, he said, you do that, we're not going to fund you for the primary.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And, and, you know, having a throttle.
Jerry Michalski: On the primaries was, a huge, power Power move that really worked.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Could you share the link to that piece of the brain chair?
Jerry Michalski: I just… I just put a link in the chat to Ways Dinguish Transformed Congress. I did that before I said… started screen sharing.
Shawn Murphy: There was a wonderful article in, what was it, Harper's years ago about, I think it was called The Family? Was that the name of it?
Jerry Michalski: Sounds familiar?
Shawn Murphy: Staggering. Staggering. Basically, it was a, it…
Shawn Murphy: it was a club, slash… it was, in effect, a condo.
Shawn Murphy: a co-housing sort of situation where a whole bunch of Republican, legislators were living together in a plex. Like, it was like a polycule. It was absolutely incredible. And this thing had been set up in the, in,
Jerry Michalski: It's the fellowship.
Shawn Murphy: The… is it the fellowship?
Jerry Michalski: I… I… is this… Christian fundamentalist thing? So there's a mini-series called The Family.
Jerry Michalski: Which was on Netflix, which was about the fellowship, and there's also a book called The Family, The Secret Fundamentalism at the Heart of American Power. I think you mean…
Shawn Murphy: Yeah, yeah. I think it was founded in about 57 or something is when the visionary, had the vision.
Shawn Murphy: 1935.
Jerry Michalski: 35, the fellowship. Hold on, let me do a screen share again.
Shawn Murphy: Anyway, because I've got all this stuff.
Jerry Michalski: to my branch.
Jerry Michalski: So here, so the… here's the fellowship, a Secret Society of Christian Fundamentalists,
Jerry Michalski: founded by a lot of conservatives who hated the New Deal, because this is against the New Deal. Abraham Vareideg, Douglas Co, names I don't remember even putting in my brain. But then in 2019, there was a mini-series about it.
Jerry Michalski: Called The Family. I'm just gonna connect these things to my brain. I mean, to the… these are my notes from today's call.
Jerry Michalski: And so the fellowship is basically the start of that.
Shawn Murphy: K.
Shawn Murphy: Anyway, everybody should know about this. It's… it is…
Shawn Murphy: It's really the essence, perhaps, of how the machine works on the right.
Mike Nelson: And their main facility is a mile from where I live, and I often jog past it.
Jerry Michalski: Wow.
Mike Nelson: It's hidden away in the woods.
Mike Nelson: In Arlington, Virginia.
Mike Nelson: And it's mostly occupied by 20-somethings, conservative Christian men and women who may become their wives.
Mike Nelson: And they all commute to the Hill, where they work for various conservative Huh?
Jerry Michalski: Of course, of course the left has an equivalent, you know, instrument just like this. It's called the Zen Center of San Francisco.
Shawn Murphy: Huh. Thank you.
Jerry Michalski: Anyway, well, we've gone down this rabbit hole pretty deep. Any other thoughts along this line?
Jerry Michalski: I think, Gil, when you were saying this is a long, thought-out strategy, it's been playing out for a long time, I completely agree, and I fear that there are many more terrific strategists on the right than on the left.
Jerry Michalski: On the left are a bunch of well-intentioned people who think policy is how to do things and want to build big institutions to solve social problems, which I think is a problematic approach to social problems.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Okay.
Jerry Michalski: I actually do.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And who trusts reason and fairness more than power.
Jerry Michalski: Yes, and on the right are a bunch of people who understand power and working together more than all those other things.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The other thing the right has had, though, which is… Wow.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Maybe just had a little quick.
Jerry Michalski: Oh, I thought, I thought ice was at your door.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Or something. is, large, consistent, stable funding.
Jerry Michalski: Yes.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That built institutions, and built farm teams, and trained people, but…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I mean, I'm on the board of a fiscal sponsor, so I deal with a bunch of not-for-profits and foundations and so forth, and the amount of grief…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: That folks have to go through to get funding.
Jerry Michalski: Hmm.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: The micromanagement that the foundations have over the folks they fund. The amount of time that's spent in reporting rather than doing the work.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: is horrific, and it's an echo in a lot of layers of American society, because you look at the growth of the administrative layer in everything from universities to healthcare to everywhere else.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: There's that mess, but, you know, with Scafey and Mellon and various others on the right, there's been very consistent funding, and I guess the other part of this, which is maybe problematic to the left, is that for the right, it's a very good investment.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Buying congresspeople is an incredibly good investment. The ROI's terrific.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And that's not the language of the left, that's the language of the right, and they've been playing that for a long time, very effectively.
Jerry Michalski: Totally agree.
Jerry Michalski: There's my tracking of conservative foundations.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Yep, and the fellowship.
Jerry Michalski: Coke… the Koch Foundation's SCAFE… is it Scafey?
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: I think, I think so, I don't know.
Jerry Michalski: Koch family, heritage,
Jerry Michalski: Bradley, Lynn and Harry Bradley Foundation, Smith Richardson Foundation, these are all deeply conservative foundations that have funded the movement we just talked about, so you're right.
Jerry Michalski: the left I'm busy listening very carefully for any progressive who's saying something different.
Jerry Michalski: sensible, and I'm not hearing any. I'm hearing a couple who
Jerry Michalski: have struck authenticity, they're figuring out how to connect with people, that's great, but their messages don't sound any different from a traditional,
Jerry Michalski: progressive.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: And I'm… I'm…
Jerry Michalski: Really concerned that this is a battle of…
Jerry Michalski: Ideologies where the left doesn't have a grip on any layer of how to do this better or right.
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: So, Jerry, how could that be different?
Jerry Michalski: Alright, that's a… that's… so I'm… I'm really interested in how…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: topic.
Jerry Michalski: I'm really interested in how to build a better world, and some of the calls we've had, I mean, we had a little series on what works in governance.
Jerry Michalski: We had, I think I did 4 calls on little g governance instead of big G government, and my goal was to try to collect up a stack. Right now, my shorthand for this is, what are our next two stacks?
Jerry Michalski: And try to figure out what is a set of, of…
Gil Friend • Sustainability OG • CxO Coach: Ways of doing decisions and making collective decisions as a society and solving problems.
Jerry Michalski: What is a way of open sourcing those things so that communities can just grab them and implement them, as opposed to telling everybody to do X or Y or Z?
Jerry Michalski: Because I think people are rejecting mandates left, right, and center, so how do we make things so functional and so appealing that,
Jerry Michalski: I don't know that I know Neighborhoodos, Kalia, thank you.
Jerry Michalski: I'm gonna go look it up.
Jerry Michalski: How do we… how do we…
Jerry Michalski: How do we put on offer a bunch of things that we know work in some places, and then make it very, very easy for other communities to implement them?
Jerry Michalski: And in a non-political way, because the left-right party system is stuck in everything we've been talking about for 87 minutes.
Jerry Michalski: Right? And so, how do… how do we make some alternate way of living together and making an abundant society happen, that then grows up from the bottom? And then if somebody wants to make a political party out of that, great, but they'll at least have some foundation to work from.
Doug Breitbart: I, I think, I think… There's a… there's an orientational… Shift… That's… that's not about… Ways of doing things.
Doug Breitbart: I really think there's a… What's… what's been lost?
Doug Breitbart: What's missing in technology?
Doug Breitbart: And what's missing in… The capitalist system, which is really at the root of a lot of this.
Doug Breitbart: Is any moral, ethical, or value orientation transcendent of individual interest?
Doug Breitbart: Relative to the capitalist driver, which is profit.
Doug Breitbart: And, all of the structures and all of the… Ways in ways
Doug Breitbart: Underlying moral, ethical value considerations and empathy.
Doug Breitbart: It's a fundamental human… Caring.
Doug Breitbart: Were supported, had to do with the… the actual… societal fabric.
Doug Breitbart: Supporting connection between people, caring Of people for other people.
Doug Breitbart: And all of that's been sort of denatured out of the system.
Doug Breitbart: And… The question is, how to sort of…
Doug Breitbart: Not provide… you can't provide that.
Doug Breitbart: But what I think and believe is that We… we can spark it.
Doug Breitbart: And that the feelings that are in that domain of empathy and… Care and value, and ethic.
Doug Breitbart: Feels better.
Doug Breitbart: And that the younger generations today
Doug Breitbart: are actually… there's a vacuum where that belongs, where that exists, where that can be catalyzed, and anything that could come along to offer that, I think, would explode like what happened in the 60s, except for those generations.
Doug Breitbart: I don't think they're sold less.
Doug Breitbart: But if you look and watch at what, culturally, they're…
Doug Breitbart: Swimming around it, and it sure looks like it.
Doug Breitbart: But I think they're… they recognize the absence of.
Doug Breitbart: I think they're feeling the absence of. I don't think anybody's offering them Bat.
Jerry Michalski: By some quirk of fate, we are right at the end of our call time, but that sounds like a really lovely thing, a lovely note to end our call on.
Jerry Michalski: I'm afraid we won't have Ken Homer around for a bit.
Jerry Michalski: So we are poemless at the end of our call, which I… leaves a little gap in my heart.
Jerry Michalski: But thank you for, joining in wholeheartedly in this conversation. I really, I really appreciate it.
Jerry Michalski: feedback, afterthoughts, put them on the OGM mailing list.
Jerry Michalski: And let's see where this goes.
Jerry Michalski: Kalia, does it make sense to have an OGM call about verifiable Communities, so we can learn more and understand what the initiative is?
Kaliya Identity Woman: Or if you want to invite Grace.
Jerry Michalski: That'd be great.
Kaliya Identity Woman: Yeah.
Jerry Michalski: Cool.
Kaliya Identity Woman: She's just about to have a whole deck about the initiative, so that's good timing.
Jerry Michalski: She's just about to have a what?
Kaliya Identity Woman: A deck.
Jerry Michalski: A deck? Super. That is good timing.
Jerry Michalski: Awesome.
Jerry Michalski: So close.
Jerry Michalski: Thank you all. This has been,
Jerry Michalski: Really informative, groovy, and slightly frightening call.
Jerry Michalski: I will see you on the inner tubes and, in another week.